hello and welcome to an introduction to
game physics my name is Samuel Asher
rivello my mission in my career is to
educate and entertain with interactive
technology I'm a Unity certified
developer with over 20 years of game
development experience in the last eight
years I've focused specifically on Unity
shipping Unity games for PC Xbox
PlayStation and more typically on
projects I'm a unity game developer or
Unity tools developer and I'm available
for remote contract hire
first of all physics is fun
making games with physics is fun and
playing them is fun too the gameplay
mechanics are experimental emergent even
educational some popular examples of
physics-based games are Angry Birds Cut
the Rope trials and marble it up
let's take a look at the course overview
in Section 1 intuitive physics we'll
look at the benefits of creating
physics-based games we'll look at the
three major concerns of any physics
system and we'll review unity's physics
system and project setup
in section 2 we'll look at unity's 2D
physics components we'll start with the
very important rigid body 2D and
collider 2D and we'll move on to
Advanced topics 2D effectors and 2D
joints we'll even look at a project
that's in public beta called Unity
Sprite shape
in Section 3 we'll look at unity's 3D
physics components first we'll review
the core principles of 3D and then we'll
move on to physic material Ragdoll and
Terrain
in section 4 we'll dive deep into
unity's c-sharp physics programming
we'll handle physics events such as
collisions and triggers we'll add
physics forces to move our objects
around and we'll look at the vital
properties and functions we need for our
physics we'll even get into physics
debugging so if a problem arise in our
code we know how to solve it in Section
5 we'll create a project from scratch
using 2D something like Angry Birds
we'll create projectile motion using our
input and will populate the world with
obstacles that Collide and destruct
in section 6 we'll create a project from
scratch using 3D something like the
1980s classic game Marvel Madness will
create a complete 3D game we'll use
physics forces to move our character
around and will populate the world with
rigid body obstacles
in section 7 we'll look at some Advanced
topics best practices with physics and
how to optimize our projects and then
we'll apply what we've learned to real
world examples we'll even look at the
data oriented technology stack or dots
in the future of unity physics
prerequisites for this course you'll
need a computer of course running
Windows or Mac you'll need a Unity
editor and a code text editor the free
personal edition of Unity comes with
both some basic skills are being
required here beginning programming
knowledge of any language and even a
dozen hours or so specifically with
unity would be very helpful but we'll
cover those basics
and bring your passion bring a love of
video games and a curiosity to learn
something new
goals of this course have fun with
physics get an in-depth understanding of
the physics system and bring it all
together to create 2D and 3D games from
scratch you also have a chance to graph
some of the key Advanced topics and
understand more about the future of
unity physics
so let's get started